[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
Would you like to
learn how to clear
a negative thought
in just minutes?
Or would you like to
learn how to change
your language in 21 days?
Well, get ready do some
exercises in this show,
and be ready to learn,
because joining me today
is a very well-respected
communications
expert, Dr. Yvonne Oswald.
She pays very careful attention
to her words and her thoughts,
thus the title of her book,
"Every Word Has Power."
Welcome to the show.
>>YVONNE OSWALD:
Thank you, Lisa.
Great to be here.
>>LISA: Yes, I'm so
glad you're here.
>>OSWALD: I know.
>>LISA: So we get to do
some exercises on this show.
>>OSWALD: OK.
>>LISA: And you have
this unique ability
to combine hypnotherapy and
neurolinguistic programming.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: How did you come
up with that concept?
>>OSWALD: What happened was I
started-- I did plenty of work
on myself because I had
an interesting childhood,
shall we say.
And I--
>>LISA: Oh, wait, you
cannot just say that.
What was the
interesting childhood?
>>OSWALD: The
interesting childhood
was abuse from my
father for three years.
And then my sister died.
And he told me he wished
I'd died instead of her.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>OSWALD: So through my
teens, through my 20s,
I knew something
wasn't quite right.
And I didn't catch on.
And then as I came into my
30s, I thought, you know what?
I need to start doing
some work on myself.
And I did talk therapy.
And I did Gestalt.
And I did scream therapy.
And I did rebirthing.
You name, I did it.
And then I discovered hypnosis.
And I took a little
certification program,
a little three days.
And I thought, I have to
learn everything about this.
It's so sweet, so easy.
And I went on to
take my PhD in it.
>>LISA: Well, that's good.
I believe that hypnosis
and anything that
has to do with the
subconscious is the only way
to effectively have
lasting change.
Because you have to get
to the deep programs.
>>OSWALD: You do.
And all change and all
learning is unconscious.
So we're setting
up the bridge again
between your conscious mind
and your unconscious mind
to make that program change.
And of course, the NLP
is fantastic for that.
The NLP simply deletes the
files, deletes the files.
>>LISA: Does it really?
>>OSWALD: It really does.
I've been doing lot
of work recently
with a lot of suicidal
people, and a lot of cutters,
teenagers particularly.
And it's amazing.
Three hours of post-traumatic
stress disorder,
it will be gone.
>>LISA: Really?
>>OSWALD: Yep.
>>LISA: And that you
could see instantly?
>>OSWALD: Instantly.
I get people to
send me three pages
of what's not working
in their life.
And I read back at the end
of it, what about this?
Do you still believe that?
And they go, I didn't say that.
Did I really say that?
>>LISA: Wow.
>>OSWALD: And it's that quick.
>>LISA: Huh.
I love that, though.
I mean, you're really
helping a lot of people.
>>OSWALD: Oh, it's wonderful.
>>LISA: So let's
talk a little bit
about the foundational process
here that you discovered
through Raymond Birdwhistell?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: Who was he?
>>OSWALD: He was a professor.
And he actually
discovered-- he did a study.
And he said that 55% of our
communication is body language.
So it's really important,
when someone's saying,
oh, I love this,
and they're shaking
their head the not right way,
you will believe automatically
the body language
over the words.
38% is the tonality you use.
And then only 7% is the words.
However, the words are
really, really important.
Because 20% of those words,
those key words we use,
have emotional weight.
And the unconscious
mind is programmed
to search for and
produce emotions
to let you know if you're safe.
>>LISA: So 55% is
the body language.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: And
then the rest is
basically the tonality.
And then a small
percentage are the words.
But yet the 7% of
the verbal words
that you say impact you 100%.
Don't they?
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
Because your self talk
literally produces
100% of the results
in your life,
whether it's good or not good.
>>LISA: So these aren't
necessarily the words you say.
It's the thoughts you think.
>>OSWALD: Yes,
it's the thoughts.
And it's the intent
behind the thoughts.
And if you have
low energy words,
if you think low energy
words, such as bad, problem,
difficult, hard, what happens is
you're using your limbic brain.
And that limbic
brain is directly
in touch with your amygdala.
So you're in touch with the
fight or flight response.
When you use high energy words
like excitement, joy, freedom,
happiness, you're using
your prefrontal cortex.
And that has no access
to the lower brain, which
means that you're feeling
good all the time.
>>LISA: So let's talk about a
perfect example, weight loss.
Why so many people--
>>OSWALD: Weight release.
>>LISA: Weight release, OK.
>>OSWALD: Because
anything you lose,
you go finding
again, like our keys.
So we say weight release.
>>LISA: So how about
permanent weight change?
>>OSWALD: Permanent weight
change is really interesting.
Because what people
don't do-- when
I'm working with someone
with weight release,
I always say to them, you
need to cleanse first.
Number one job is
you need to cleanse.
If you have any belly fat at
all, it says you're toxic.
And the second I see someone
with a belly, I'm like,
you need to see me once.
And then next time, I want
to see this belly fat gone.
The belly fat's
there for protection
of all the toxins in your body.
So I know it's not--
>>LISA: It holds on to
the toxins, too, yeah.
>>OSWALD: It holds on to the
toxins as a protective device.
Because it's not healthy for
you to have that going around
your body.
And I make sure they
have a liver cleanse.
And they sometimes do
the master cleanse.
And then I'll see them.
Because every major
religion has cleansing
involved in the whole ritual--
40 days of Lent, et cetera.
And we don't do it these days.
>>LISA: Do you think that
when you hold on to toxins
and to excess body
fat, that it's also
the thoughts, the
excess thoughts?
>>OSWALD: Definitely, yes.
>>LISA: It's all connected?
>>OSWALD: It's all connected.
And it's all done before
you're seven years old.
And the interesting
thing is, you
don't know what you
thought before you
were seven years old.
>>LISA: No.
>>OSWALD: You have
no way of remembering
what decisions you made.
And you made those decisions
with this much information
available, remember.
>>LISA: Right, no
critical thinking factors.
>>OSWALD: There's
no filter at all.
And then what happens
is you live your life
based on those
little assumptions.
How you know they're there is
very much like quantum physics.
You can see the leaves moving.
You know there must be a breeze.
With the words, you know there's
something not working for you.
Because there's something
not working in your life,
you know you've made
a limiting decision.
So if you want $1 million and
you haven't got $1 million,
you've made a limiting decision.
If you want health,
and your not healthy,
you've made a
decision somewhere.
And it's really
easy to find them.
>>LISA: So then can you
reverse that and actually make
the decision to be healthy?
>>OSWALD: 100%.
>>LISA: Make the decision to--
>>OSWALD: Unconsciously.
>>LISA: Unconsciously.
So make the decision
to break the pattern,
but embed a new pattern
of healthy food.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, and not even.
Once you've released
those emotions.
Because, obviously,
weight release
has to do with
holding on to stuff.
Stuff is like the
technical word for it.
And what happens is you
have those decisions
like little clouds
above your head.
So when you send up a thought to
the abundant universe and say,
I want this please, if
those clouds are there,
then it can't find
its way there.
Or it finds its way there, and
it can't find its way back.
If you get excited
about something,
you get interested in
going towards something,
then suddenly, Bob's your
uncle, it comes back to you.
>>LISA: Do you have to go
into a hypnotic state in order
for this change to be effective?
>>OSWALD: You can do it
with NLP linguistically.
>>LISA: You can?
>>OSWALD: You can, yes.
It's really, really interesting.
There's a mathematical equation
called a Cartesian coordinate,
which is what would happen if
you did release weight, what
wouldn't happen if you did
release weight, what would
happen if you didn't release
weight, what wouldn't happen
if you didn't release weight.
And it opens up possibilities.
Instead of people searching
over and over again
for those little seven bits
of information out of the two
million that the
unconscious is aware of,
it opens up the unconscious so
that it can get new solutions.
>>LISA: I've heard of the
Cartesian coordinates--
>>OSWALD: It's amazing.
>>LISA: And the four
segments, and you
can convince the
unconscious-- that
unravels the unconscious mind.
>>OSWALD: It does.
It loosens the
model of the world.
And once you've
loosened the model,
you have every possibility.
It's like--
>>LISA: Causes confusion, too.
>>OSWALD: It does.
You know, most people when they
get caught up in this closed
loop, it's looking for a door in
a closed room, in a dark room.
And you can go round, and round,
and round, and never find it.
You only need one
flash of lightning
to show you where the door is.
And, suddenly, there
you are at the door.
And you can open it, even
when it's dark again.
>>LISA: And sometimes when
you have confusion, just
like the chaos theory, the mind
attempts to chunk itself up
to the highest possible
sense of order.
>>OSWALD: That's right, yes.
>>LISA: And then resolves
itself if it can.
>>OSWALD: Exactly, goes
up to highest values.
And then brings
you new solutions.
>>LISA: The chaos
theory to undo it.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: OK, well, if you were to
work with someone on something
like weight loss.
>>OSWALD: Weight release.
>>LISA: Weight
release, thank you.
Would you have to know-- and I
appreciate your attentiveness
to my words.
Would you have to know the
person's story around it?
Would you undo that?
>>OSWALD: That's an
interesting idea.
Because what used
to happen is when
I'd do a session with someone,
I'd get the whole story.
And I'd be sitting there
taking notes, thinking
this is really not interesting.
And then I said to one person.
You know, to save us
time-- and me time,
and you money-- send me
three pages ahead of time.
Send me a story.
And they would actually
write three to ten pages.
And then suddenly it's like,
oh, I know you so well.
Because they've been
thinking of me all the time.
And, literally, I would
spend the first hour
on that story just
deleting the files.
Very simple, when we've deleted
the files, when we have them
in that state where they're
not sure where they're going
or who they are
anymore, suddenly
then we can actually
get to where
we want to go and really
set them on a new path.
>>LISA: OK.
Well, you have a wonderful
commitment to words.
And I have a video here of you
changing somebody's pattern
into optimistic thinking.
Now, take a look at this video.
You're going to do this
exercise along with Dr. Yvonne.
Take a look.
>>OSWALD: Hello,
Dr. Yvonne here.
Every word has power.
We're going to talk today
about optimistic thinking.
How do you get optimistic?
So let's talk about optimism.
You know, you show optimism
in your physiology as well.
You can show it with
your body language.
And you can change your mind
by changing your physiology.
Quite amazing.
When someone's down,
literally, what happens
is their head is down.
Their shoulders are down.
They're slumped.
And their breathing
becomes very shallow.
And you can see from their
face, it doesn't look great.
And it's very interesting.
Because even as
I'm down here, I'm
not feeling very good right now.
I'm going to show you
a better physiology.
Chin up, back
straight, feeling good.
Nice, deep breaths, remember
that the deep breath relaxes
the diaphragm, tells the
unconscious mind, we're safe.
Everything's cool.
And just simply by staying
physiologically upright,
you actually feel a lot better.
I feel great now, actually.
I feel really good.
And funnily enough, I'm starting
to remember beautiful times
from the past.
You start to
remember sunny days.
So let's go ahead
and get you anchored
into a beautiful
time in your past.
I'd like you to simply put
your chin up, back straight.
Close your eyes.
And think of the
most amazing time
you ever had in your whole
life, a beautiful day when
you were calmly at the
beach or in a forest,
listening to the
sounds of nature.
Turn all the colors up.
Turn the sounds up.
Turn the feelings up.
And I'd like you,
actually, to find out
where you're holding that
memory in your physical body.
I have a memory of
the beach, right here.
I don't know why it's there.
My unconscious mind
knows why it's there.
So I'm actually going to plant
that memory of the beach right
here on my shoulder.
And every time I think
of my right shoulder,
I'm going to be thinking of
the beach and relaxation.
I can even touch that area and
find that I will immediately
become optimistic.
Your emotions are stored
in your physical body.
That's the only place your
unconscious mind knows
where to store your
emotions and your memories.
The memories have emotions
associated with them.
So we can actually plant new
memories in our physical body
and release the
old memories, too.
We can do mind magic from the
book "Every Word Has Power"
to clear the negative emotions.
To really gets
into optimism, it's
as simple as sitting up
straight, back straight.
Going into Hakalau, going
into the learning state, where
you see the left and
the right on both sides.
And touching that
beautiful memory.
Deep breath, feeling
good for the day.
Thank you, this is Dr. Yvonne.
It was great being
with you today.
Pass along my tips to
everybody you know.
And I'm looking forward
to seeing you next time.
Bye.
>>LISA: OK, so
that was the first
of a couple of videos where
we can actually do exercises
with you, which I love.
So you talk about what
you call the happy brain.
Is that where the
programming is going into?
What is the happy brain?
>>OSWALD: The happy brain
is the prefrontal cortex.
It's up here.
And what happens is when
you sit up straight,
when you put your chin up,
when you go into Hakalau,
you're actually using
the prefrontal cortex.
It then has no access
to the amygdala.
>>LISA: So you're consciously
using the prefrontal cortex.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: The limbic
system of the brain
is where the old
storage is, right?
>>OSWALD: That's right,
the old family brain.
>>LISA: The survival
brain, right?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
And language is only
about 65,000 years old.
>>LISA: That's a long time.
>>OSWALD: It's not.
In the broader scheme of things,
it's really not that long.
I know.
>>LISA: In my lifetime,
it's a really long time.
>>OSWALD: Exactly, I know.
It's true.
>>LISA: OK, so let's
undo some words here,
or find some alternatives
to certain words.
So for example, failure.
When I failed at
something, what could we
switch it to instead
of the word failure?
>>OSWALD: I didn't have
enough information.
>>LISA: I didn't get
So instead of I failed
that test, I didn't get--
>>OSWALD: Exactly, I didn't
have enough information.
Or I didn't know
my stuff enough.
See, when a child
falls down, you
don't stand there and
go, aw, look at that.
You stand there and
say, hey, you can do it.
You can do it.
And then the child
stands and walks.
And then falls down again.
And you don't say, aw.
You actually say, it's OK.
You'll do it next time.
So it's just when you don't do--
if this person does something
great, and I don't
do something great,
it means I don't have
enough information.
That's it.
>>LISA: So, I mean, what, for
example of running for office?
When a person doesn't win,
or a contest or something,
can you turn that into a
learning experience with that?
Instead of saying I
failed, I learned--
>>OSWALD: Yes.
And--
>>LISA: And that's OK.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, and, of
course, I learned more.
I learned about myself.
I learned what I
need to know more
about what I was aiming towards.
Did I appeal to highest values?
Did I help the people
understand my message?
Because the meaning
of communication
is it's a response you get.
And if you don't get
the right response,
then you're not communicating
your point well enough.
>>LISA: Interesting,
very interesting.
It'd be good to
know before you run
for that office or contest--
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: Is to do your speech,
or your whatever you're doing,
with the meaning
associated with it.
And make sure that
that drives home.
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
And you need to do it in the
format of why am I doing this?
What is it about?
How am I going to
go about doing it?
And does anybody
have any questions?
If you simply apply that
to everything you say,
speak, or write, you've got
the way the brain works.
>>LISA: Think about
job interviews.
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
>>LISA: People are always trying
to figure out how do I get this
job over the millions
of applicants, and--
>>OSWALD: Yeah, yeah.
>>LISA: And if you
can actually come in
with your intentionality, it'll
go through to the employer.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, and match or
mirror the people employing.
If you've got three
people interviewing you,
and one of them is mismatching
your body language,
your job is to talk to
the ones who love you,
and match the body language
of the person who doesn't.
And then gradually bring
them into the club.
It's so cool when you do that.
>>LISA: Interesting.
So two people
could be receptive.
One could have
their arms closed.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
So if they've got
their arms closed,
you would sit there
with your hands
closed on your lap like that.
Not like this, obviously
not copying them directly,
but matching them.
And then as you're
talking to the two,
you will then bring
in the third one.
Say, and this--
and bring them in.
They have to open their hands.
It's really interesting to do.
>>LISA: Fascinating.
>>OSWALD: They absolutely
have no option.
It's just like, they
want to keep them closed.
And you've brought
them into the club.
>>LISA: And that's
how you're basically
using neurolinguistic
programming hypnotically.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: By matching
and mirroring them.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, and in hypnosis
it's called pacing and leading.
You join them all
over the world,
and then bring them
into yours, which
is what all therapy is about.
When I do work
with people, to me,
all therapy is a
parts integration.
We're bringing
the bits back home
that were separated off somehow.
>>LISA: Great.
Great.
OK, let's reframe
the word "lazy."
That's good.
>>OSWALD: I'm relaxing.
[LAUGHTER]
It's as simple as that.
You wouldn't want to
sit down and do nothing
if your unconscious mind
wasn't saying, I need a rest.
>>LISA: What about bored?
Can you reframe bored?
>>OSWALD: I'm not
very interested.
>>LISA: Not interested.
I love it.
>>OSWALD: So the unconscious
mind doesn't hear the not.
So it's like, if you, don't
touch that to a five-year-old,
the five-year-old's
going to do this.
And you say, don't touch that.
And it goes, yeah.
Because it hears the word touch.
So it doesn't hear grammar.
It doesn't compute grammar.
It doesn't understand context.
It computes keywords.
>>LISA: Just like the internet
search, basically, right?
>>OSWALD: Yes, exactly, just
like an internet search,
exactly.
>>LISA: So when
you say don't, it
deletes the don't, and
just hears the keyword.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
Yeah, so if you're
a parent, the word
don't needs never to
come out of your mouth.
Because what follows is
it is exactly what you
don't want them to do.
And they'll do it.
>>LISA: Go back to the
concept every word has power.
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
>>LISA: All right, so
body, how could you
reframe your body image?
>>OSWALD: Just about saying I
feel slim and beautiful today.
And the unconscious
mind is searching
for slim and beautiful, and
will bring you more of the same.
>>LISA: OK.
All right.
Bad.
>>OSWALD: Not good.
>>LISA: I did a not good job?
>>OSWALD: I didn't do a good Job
>>LISA: I didn't do a good job.
>>OSWALD: I actually have
worked so much with these words,
it's really interesting.
I was teaching at the
Harvard Medical School.
And I said, so,
the word not good.
The word not good.
And I literally didn't
have that word in my head.
I had to ask someone
what word not good was.
And they said, bad.
And I'm like, ah, that one, yes.
It's really-- when you actually
start working with them.
I mean, I've been
doing it for years now.
You don't even have
access to those words.
Or here's the
interesting thing, you
don't have access
the concepts either.
So, theoretically, according
to quantum mechanics,
what we don't observe
doesn't exist.
If we can release the word
"hate" from our language,
then the whole
concept will exist.
>>LISA: So what's
another word for hate?
>>OSWALD: I don't like.
>>LISA: I don't like.
>>OSWALD: We say, I
hate that TV show.
Guess what?
The unconscious mind isn't
searching for TV show;
it's searching for the
emotional word, which
is where this job is to give
you emotions as messaging system
to let you know you're
safe or not safe.
So when it's searching for
something you don't want to,
the next day you wake up
feeling not good because it's
gone off searching for
something you don't want it to.
So you mildly
dislike that TV show.
Or you don't like the TV show.
You don't-- that's too strong
a word to use in that context.
>>LISA: Yeah, it's
a strong word.
>>OSWALD: It is.
>>LISA: Definitely.
And it carries weight
to it, as you're saying.
>>OSWALD: It does.
>>LISA: And the brain feels
the emotion behind the weight.
And probably neurochemically,
it creates more--
>>OSWALD: It lowers your
immune system, literally.
It physically lowers
your immune system.
When you use high energy words,
it boosts your immune system.
When you use low energy words,
it gets you directly in contact
with your lower
brain, your amygdala,
and lowers your immune system.
>>LISA: And it's probably
because of, what?
Stress hormones
that are released
when it hears those
types of words?
>>OSWALD: It puts the
unconscious on high
alert, which is
what the PTSD does.
If you're in a situation
where you may be killed,
the unconscious mind's
going, [SIRENS].
And it's not ever told
you to stand down.
So when I'm working with people,
I just get the unconscious mind
to stand down.
It's very simple.
If you repress it, and
say talk to the hand,
it's going to get a stronger
and stronger signal.
And all we have to do
is say, you know what?
It's over.
We can calm down now.
>>LISA: OK, and
then you can impact
the conscious a lot easier?
>>OSWALD: Totally.
>>LISA: Without the
unconscious in the way.
>>OSWALD: There's
no reason for it
to be there if the
unconscious mind believes
the story's finished.
>>LISA: OK, what about
the word difficult?
Or that's hard?
>>OSWALD: Not easy.
>>LISA: It's not easy.
But it still says
the same thing.
>>OSWALD: It says
It's just moving a bit more
towards where you want.
So the old-fashioned idea
was with psychotherapists
is they'd say, I'm
feeling really angry.
Oh, you're feeling really angry.
And they'd repeat it.
Well, all we're doing is
going backwards into anger.
Whereas if you say,
I realize that.
It doesn't feel good.
Does sit?
So what happens is
the unconscious mind
is searching for good.
It automatically
turns the person
in a different direction.
>>LISA: I see.
That's a great example.
So instead of the word
angry, you would say not--
>>OSWALD: I'm not
feeling great right now.
>>LISA: Not great, OK.
>>OSWALD: Or I'm having a really
interesting emotion coming up
right now.
>>LISA: So it grabs
on to interesting?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: Ah, and I'm not feeling
great grabs on to great?
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
>>LISA: Not feeling
good grabs on to good.
>>OSWALD: Exactly, yes.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>OSWALD: And here's the thing.
The thing about emotion
that's really interesting
is that the negative
emotions are not real.
They feel real.
However, it simply
shows us an absence
of love, joy, happiness,
and excitement.
So if you have anger, it says
you haven't got your passion.
You're not able to
control your life.
If you have fear, it's
the absence of power.
>>LISA: Well,
undoubtedly, you had
anger from your
childhood situation.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, rage, rage.
>>LISA: Rage, of course.
So how did you reframe that?
And how long did that take?
>>OSWALD: It took a long
time until I discovered
the hypnosis and
the NLP, actually.
And then when I discovered
that, it was instantaneous.
It was like, wow.
This is so cool.
I'd worked on going into the
emotion, into the emotion,
into the emotion.
And all that does,
like talk therapy,
it just expands the emotion.
And it's like opening a
virus file on your computer.
Why would you do that?
>>LISA: Right.
>>OSWALD: You want to just
get the name of the file,
delete it.
Thank you very much, moving on.
And when you understand
the whole situation, when
you can see it from
all perspectives,
there's no possibility
of anger or fear.
>>LISA: Well, not only do
you have to understand it,
but you also have to believe it.
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
>>LISA: You have to believe
that it's this easy.
And there's a belief system that
I have that it's not that easy.
>>OSWALD: Ooh.
I can so prove that
to you after the show.
>>LISA: OK, well,
could we do it now?
>>OSWALD: It would take a
little while to do it now, so.
>>LISA: Oh, OK.
>>OSWALD: It'll take
10 minutes or so.
>>LISA: OK, so where
did I hear in my life
that life wasn't easy?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
So basically I would take the
strongest memory you have,
which keeps coming back
over and over again
because it's not complete.
And we simply just change the
place it is in your brain,
and delete the file.
>>LISA: We could do that.
>>OSWALD: If you got a piece of
paper, I can write that down.
>>LISA: Oh, I see.
Wow, interesting.
So take the memory
that I had where
I saw in my childhood
life is not easy.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
Here's the thing.
Actually, I can do it now.
We can do a one
minute thing, which
is the mind magic, which
is what I actually invented
to clear a negative emotion
or a limiting belief
>>LISA: Great.
>>OSWALD: OK.
So let's do that.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: So what you want
to do is sit up straight,
chin up a little bit.
Take a deep breath.
So you're actually
in that nice position
where we're saying to the
unconscious mind, we're ready.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: OK.
So what I'd like
you to do is think
about that whatever it was.
We don't even know.
What's your phrase
for the situation?
>>LISA: Not easy.
>>OSWALD: No, what's your
phrase for the situation we want
to clear, the memory
you want to clear?
What emotion is it?
>>LISA: Hard,
difficult, struggle.
>>OSWALD: Struggle?
That life is hard
and a struggle?
>>LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>>OSWALD: Good.
So we can do that.
Ready?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>OSWALD: So what
you're gonna do
is you're going to lay your left
hand in a loose fist-- that's
it-- on your lap.
And then you're
going to be putting
your finger on the knuckle.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: That's right.
Finger up the knuckle.
Take it off.
What we're doing is we're
telling the unconscious mind
to release the negative
emotion and preserve
the positive lesson for
your health and benefit.
And this,
neurologically, ends up
in your gut, which is
where the emotion is.
So you're actually telling
the unconscious mind,
this meridian--
follow this meridian.
And find it.
And delete it.
OK, you ready?
>>LISA: Wow.
OK.
>>OSWALD: So we're going
to look up at the ceiling.
Choose your spot.
Because you're actually
in your prefrontal cortex.
Right up at the
ceiling, OK, good.
Keep your eyes open.
Because we're releasing
the emotions peripherally.
So go ahead.
Look up.
Finger on the knuckle,
take a deep breath.
And as you release
the breath, let
go of the root
cause of the belief
that life is difficult
and not easy.
Take your finger
off the knuckle.
Release.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: OK.
Go ahead and find where
it is in your body.
You'll only find it a
little bit right now.
OK go ahead.
Look up.
A little bit higher
than that, Lisa.
That's it, perfect.
Take a deep breath.
Hold it.
Put your finger on the knuckle.
And as you release
the breath, let
go of the root
cause of the belief
that life is difficult
and not easy.
>>LISA: Take your finger off?
>>OSWALD: Take your finger off.
Last time, three times, because
it's like deleting a file.
It says, are you sure?
And then it goes into recycling.
And then it's gone.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: OK, go
ahead, last time.
Look up, finger on the knuckle.
Take a deep breath.
Release it.
Release the root
cause of the belief.
And release the-- finger
on the knuckle-- release
the root cause of the thing--
put your finger on the knuckle.
That's it.
Again, release the root
cause of the belief
that life is not easy
and has to be difficult.
OK, now how do you
feel about that belief?
>>LISA: It's very,
very far, far away.
>>OSWALD: It makes it neutral.
So what would happen if
you did have that belief?
>>LISA: Uh, good question.
>>OSWALD: What wouldn't
happen if you had that belief?
>>LISA: I don't
have any idea-- I
would be-- have an
easier lifestyle.
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
What wouldn't happen if you
didn't have that belief?
>>LISA: Um, I would stress less?
>>OSWALD: OK.
And what wouldn't happen if
you didn't have that belief?
>>LISA: What wouldn't
happen-- what wouldn't happen
is that I wouldn't
have that belief.
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
Because it's not
just about realizing
that belief isn't
valid, isn't it?
Because anything other than
realizing that that belief has
no use in your life isn't going
to allow you to follow your joy
and find yourself wonderfully
relaxed and enjoying life,
is it?
>>LISA: Wow.
Wow.
That's amazing.
Yeah, it--
>>OSWALD: Now, go ahead and
try and feel that belief.
>>LISA: It wasn't mine.
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
>>LISA: Right.
>>OSWALD: That's how easy it is.
I mean, it's just, bam.
Gone.
>>LISA: Yeah, interesting.
Because it was-- it
puts it in perspective.
It was a long, long time ago.
It was my Mom.
And my father was in the war.
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
>>LISA: Yeah, so that
was difficult for--
>>OSWALD: Exactly, not easy.
>>LISA: Yeah.
It was actually
difficult for her.
I'm sure as a child I was
not realizing all of that.
>>OSWALD: And you
were being imprinted
with the whole system.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>OSWALD: We copy our
mothers and fathers.
We model the person
we admire the most.
>>LISA: Of course.
>>OSWALD: And we also some model
their negative traits, as well
as their positive ones.
>>LISA: Oh yeah.
>>OSWALD: So the
job that I-- when
I'm working with teenagers, I
love working with teenagers.
Because I'll say to
them, what did you
get DNA-wise from your parents?
What genetically
did you inherit?
Oh yeah, Mom had
a sense of humor.
Dad was intelligent.
He was a good worker.
And suddenly, I'll just
say, you know what?
You chose really good
parents then, right?
And they'll go, I never
thought of it like that.
>>LISA: So what were the
good traits, basically?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
What did they need
from both parents that
would help them
with this lifetime.
And once you've got
that, it's easy.
>>LISA: So can you
resolve addiction?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: And deep,
deep DNA strains?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
Yeah.
>>LISA: You can?
>>OSWALD: And the thing is that
any addiction, sexual abuse,
even diabetes, it's like a virus
going through the family group.
Someone decided way back
to decide to get it.
Someone made a limiting
decision and then passed it on.
And it's up to us to release
those limiting decisions.
Of course, we can clear the
DNA as a direct result of that.
>>LISA: So what about pain?
What about physical pain?
Back pain, specifically?
>>OSWALD: Physical
pain is two things.
It's toxins in your
physical body-- you're not
exercised out-- and emotional.
So any back pain--
Upledger said that-- you
know, the guy who did
craniosacral therapy--
that any back pain longer
than six weeks is emotional.
>>LISA: So chronic?
>>OSWALD: Chronic, and if you,
of course, read your Louise
Hay, she says lower
back pain is self worth.
Middle back pain is guilt.
And upper back pain is, um--
>>LISA: Overwhelmed.
>>OSWALD: It's too
much responsibility.
>>LISA: Ah, OK.
So you could-- I mean,
maybe the first person that
comes to mind of who you
have a responsibility over.
>>OSWALD: Yes, so it's
who is in your back,
not what is in your back.
>>LISA: Who is in your back.
>>OSWALD: And who
are you angry at.
You see, because
depression, to me,
is not what are you
depressed about?
But who are you angry at?
Who are you long-term angry
at that you didn't resolve?
>>LISA: OK.
And then you can go
through the processes.
>>OSWALD: And it's
easy to clear.
>>LISA: It is.
>>OSWALD: And taking
drugs isn't the answer.
It may be a short-term fix.
It doesn't help long-term.
>>LISA: The anti-inflammatory
doesn't get rid of the emotion.
>>OSWALD: No
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>OSWALD: And
something like grief.
You know, you need
to grieve for a year.
Over a year, you need to
get back to your life.
And these techniques
are fantastically
simple for clearing them.
>>LISA: A year, that's a
great way of looking at it.
Some people try to
run away from grief
and don't know
what to do with it.
>>OSWALD: Get right into it.
Acknowledge the
unconscious mind's need
to release that emotion.
It's saying there's a big
package of stuff here.
Can we clear it, please?
>>LISA: So if somebody has
the loss of a loved one,
they should really
set aside a year?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
>>LISA: To grieve?
>>OSWALD: To grieve it, to
remember-- six months minimum.
To me, it's like, go ahead.
Feel it.
Really get into it.
Feel sorry for yourself.
Because that's what
grief is about, really.
>>LISA: You can still continue
with your responsibilities.
But not overdo it, right?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
Yeah, and after a
year, we're done.
Let's move on.
>>LISA: Interesting.
All right, this
word, no problem.
>>OSWALD: Oh, I know.
>>LISA: You don't like that one.
Do you?
>>OSWALD: That's my
biggie I want to clear.
It means you're welcome.
It literally says,
you're welcome.
Or, it's all good.
Why would you mention problems
when there's no problem?
The interesting--
>>LISA: That's great.
>>OSWALD: --thing
is, when I teach
hypnosis to people,
what I realized
during the training
was people were leaning
forward and saying,
so just let go
of all the worry, and anxiety.
And I'm like, whoa,
we didn't even
have that before you said it!
And I'm like, where's the mouth?
Where's the mouth?
And then I realized the
whole four-day training--
>>LISA: [LAUGHS]
>>OSWALD: I know.
I was feeling good,
actually, two minutes ago.
And I give them 20 poker chips,
or little coins, or whatever.
And we play it as a game.
And I say, whenever
you say a low energy
word for the next
four days, someone's
going to chip you,
and switch you.
And you have to replace it
with a high energy word.
So if someone says, don't worry.
And someone says, switch.
They have to give a coin.
And then they have to
say, you'll be fine.
>>LISA: That is a great game.
>>OSWALD: It treats--
it really does.
You can play it
with your friends.
with someone there.
You need to have an
agreement with them
that you're going
to do it though.
Because otherwise people
take it personally.
>>LISA: Right, it
could be annoying.
>>OSWALD: Well, yeah,
because people go,
I can't say anything
without you switching me.
It's like, yes.
Imagine what you're doing
to your unconscious mind.
>>LISA: That's a great idea.
But can you really
change an old, old habit?
>>OSWALD: Yes, you can.
>>LISA: In four days?
>>OSWALD: It's really fast.
It's really fast.
And it took me a long time.
What happens is, the more I
teach it, the faster it gets.
The changes occur
really quickly.
And people on the third
day will be saying,
I'll get back to you
when I've rethought it.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>OSWALD: It's very fascinating.
>>LISA: So you just need to,
by habit, change your language?
>>OSWALD: Yes, and you're not
aware of your own language.
So you do need a switch buddy.
I call it a switch buddy.
>>LISA: A switch buddy, yeah.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, so get someone
in to help you so that you say,
every time I say a low energy
word, could you switch me?
And I use low energy words
and high energy words
rather than positive
and negative.
Because when I looked up the
word positive on the internet,
guess what came back?
>>LISA: High energy.
>>OSWALD: No.
>>LISA: What?
>>OSWALD: Hepatitis C, HIV--
>>LISA: Oh.
>>OSWALD: I know.
It's got a whole
different connotation now
than it used to have.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, and of
course negative and positive
are polarity-based
again, which is limbic.
So we want to get variations.
So love has a different
energy than excitement.
>>LISA: Interesting.
So when you looked up
negative, what is that?
>>OSWALD: It brings
up all the negative.
>>LISA: OK.
Easy enough.
OK, forgot, this is great.
>>OSWALD: Didn't remember.
>>LISA: I didn't remember.
So if you have a
fear of forgetting.
As we age, the memory quote--
>>OSWALD: I'm going to say
to you, don't remember it.
>>LISA: You don't remember.
>>OSWALD: Don't remember it.
>>LISA: Oh, when, ah!
>>OSWALD: Do not remember.
And you'll go, what do
you mean, don't remember?
Don't remember?
>>LISA: Remember.
>>OSWALD: Oh, remember.
You've got to say
it three times.
So if I say don't forget
your lunch to a child,
they're going to
forget their lunch.
Because you've given them
a direct instruction.
If I say, don't remember
your lunch, they'll go, what?
Don't remember.
>>LISA: Or just,
remember your lunch.
>>OSWALD: Remember your lunch.
>>LISA: Remember your keys.
>>OSWALD: That's right.
That's right.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: I know it's simple.
>>LISA: Yeah.
But it's good.
>>OSWALD: It's all good.
>>LISA: OK, so now let's
talk about anxiety, fear.
>>OSWALD: Right, anxiety
is-- fear and anxiety,
people get mixed up
about fear and anxiety.
Fear is a past-based emotion.
Anxiety and worry
are future-based.
They haven't happened yet.
They haven't concluded.
That's why it's a
never-ending story.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: So what's
very interesting is
your unconscious mind perceives
it as a, are we safe yet?
Are we safe yet?
And you get caught
up in the loops.
So very easily, I invented a
thing called personal freedom
matrix.
So you want to do that?
>>LISA: OK.
Personal freedom matrix, OK.
>>OSWALD: Because
I realized if past,
present, and future are a one.
And we have really no--
it's just a convenience.
If the future is the
same as the past,
it's the same energy area.
And what we do, we tend to think
of the past and the present.
We don't tend to think
of the future as real.
Because it's not in our
physical body as a memory.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: We have our past.
We hold our emotions
in our body--
>>LISA: Unless you do
visualization, but yeah.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, we hold
our emotions in our body.
And the visualization
leaves the memory
floating out there somewhere.
So I figured, why don't
we get that memory
and bring it back to the body?
And plant it in the body along
with the fabulous emotion?
The unconsciousness
mind says, awesome.
We had a happy ending.
It doesn't need to do any
worry or anxiety anymore.
>>LISA: So you would,
of course, find
the positive or the
feel good situation
and bring it into the body?
>>OSWALD: Yes, and
bring it into the body.
Bring it in.
Lock it in.
>>LISA: Well, what anxiety is
is usually a negative situation
that's floating out there
that hasn't happened yet.
>>OSWALD: That's right.
You have all these case
scenarios of what would happen.
If you already know
it's a happy ending,
you're not even
thinking about it.
So you want to do it?
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: OK.
Takes two minutes.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: This is
something we can do.
So think of how old
you are at the moment.
We won't display it.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: How many
years will it be
before you are absolutely
free on every level,
physically, emotionally,
financially, everything?
>>LISA: How many
years will it be?
>>OSWALD: Yeah, realistically.
>>LISA: I don't know.
>>OSWALD: First number that
comes into your head is?
>>LISA: 15?
>>OSWALD: Wow, OK.
We can so change that.
You ready?
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: OK, Good.
So go ahead and close
your eyes briefly.
And everybody else
watching can do this, too.
Go ahead and close your eyes.
Go ahead and float above your
body all the way to the future.
And find that you of the future,
who is happy, free, slim,
joyful.
And watch her as she goes
about her everyday life.
As you're watching her,
I want you to see her
with her wonderful daughter and
her wonderful house, absolutely
fabulous friends,
amazing career where
you're traveling the world.
You've got your book out there.
You've got videos,
TV, everything,
all really wonderful.
And you can actually see
the joy and the confidence
emanating from yourself.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>OSWALD: And as you're watching
that, she suddenly spots you.
And she says, Lisa.
You took your time to find me!
I've been waiting for you here!
Look at what we've got!
It's fabulous.
And she's going to
show you the house,
show you where she's living.
She's going to show you
the second and third house
in different countries,
the beautiful travel,
the way you're
impacting the world,
the way you're really
making a difference
and how wonderful it is.
And she's going to say, let
me give you some advice.
Let me tell you what I need
to do, what you need to do,
to make us get here
faster than this.
And the first thing that
comes into your head is?
>>LISA: Relax.
>>OSWALD: Relax, OK.
So time for you to relax.
Because you want to make
changes right now, haven't you?
And as you take that advice,
she's going to give you a box.
She's going to give you a gift.
So take something
out of the box.
What are you taking out?
>>LISA: Keys.
>>OSWALD: Keys?
What kind of keys?
>>LISA: Keys to
unlock your future.
>>OSWALD: OK, what
color are the keys?
>>LISA: Yellow.
>>OSWALD: Good.
That's awesome.
That's actually
self-empowerment.
And also, she's
going to give you
the gift of everything she knows
then that you don't know yet,
the resource, the information.
And we always say, if
we were 20 years old
and we had the
information we have now,
wouldn't life have
been different.
>>LISA: Right.
Right.
>>OSWALD: So she's
going to give you that.
I want you to lock
that into your body.
Take a deep breath.
Lock it in.
And then literally color the
whole picture with one color.
Choose a color from the rainbow.
What color would
you like to choose?
>>LISA: Purple.
>>OSWALD: Purple, awesome.
Color the whole
thing with purple.
Take a deep breath of that
purple into your heart,
along with the keys,
along with the resources,
along with the advice.
Lock it into your heart.
And then find the one
little cell in your heart
that has the most of
that purple in it.
And put a face, and two
little arms and legs on it.
And see it high-five and hug
every cell in your heart,
in your lungs, in
your liver, right down
your spine through your legs
to your toes, up your toes,
up your spine, strengthening
and uplifting your spine
to your shoulders, your
fingers, your neck, your face,
every hair follicle tingling
and alive with that freedom
and that purple.
Lock it into your body.
And open your eyes.
>>LISA: Wow.
Wow.
>>OSWALD: Now, how many
years before you're
going to be happy and free?
>>LISA: Now?
>>OSWALD: It's different.
Exactly.
>>LISA: That is great.
>>OSWALD: Isn't it?
>>LISA: Because I was just
recently working on this.
I have a book coming out.
And I am nervous about it.
And you think, how is
it going to be received?
And I realized that I've
been thinking of, well,
what if someone doesn't like it?
More than I've been
thinking of, how many people
will be impacted and love it?
>>OSWALD: Exactly, what
difference can you make?
And once you get
to highest values,
once you get to that idea
of helping the planet
and helping people,
nothing else matters.
>>LISA: Yes.
I was just thinking about
this on the way here today.
>>OSWALD: Isn't that cool?
>>LISA: That is great.
>>OSWALD: It's awesome.
>>LISA: Fantastic.
>>OSWALD: That's how fast it is.
>>LISA: Well, it's great.
>>OSWALD: I know.
>>LISA: Thank you.
All right, we're going to take
a look at another video here
of Dr. Yvonne taking us
through another process.
Take a look.
>>OSWALD: Hello,
this is Dr. Yvonne.
Welcome to "Every
Word Has Power."
Today, we're going to
learn mind magic, how
to release a negative emotion
in less than a minute.
Your emotions are your
survival mechanism.
Your unconscious
mind uses emotions
as a messaging
system to you to let
you know whether you're
safe or not safe.
All those emotions are
attached to the word you use.
We're going to learn
about the words later.
For now, we're going to release
those emotions as they come up
on a day-to-day basis.
This is magic.
You'll find it
works really well.
We're also going to release
them in a set order.
We're going to release them
first of all with anger,
then sadness, then
fear, then guilt.
Anxiety is a whole
other emotion.
It's a future-based emotion.
So we'll deal with
that at a future time.
For now, I'd like
to teach you how
to relax your body so that
you can talk to your mind.
So go ahead initially,
and back straight.
And put your chin up.
And the expression "keep your
chin up" means stay optimistic.
Use a different part of your
mind, the prefrontal cortex,
which is what I call
the happy brain.
So as we get our chin
up and back straight,
you're going to actually
take a deep breath
to relax your diaphragm here.
And if you put your hand
on your stomach like this
and take a deep breath so
that the hand comes out,
that's the correct breath.
Because what that does is
it pushes the diaphragm down
and actually tells
your unconscious mind
that the danger's over.
We're good.
We can relax.
So go ahead and make
sure your tongue's
on the bottom of your mouth.
And your mouth is nice
and relaxed, like that.
That's it.
And you'll already be feeling
a lot more calm, a lot more
relaxed.
And as you're looking at
me, and I'm looking at you,
I want you to become
aware of what's
on the right and
the left of you.
I can see a lamp here
and a mirror here,
even while I'm looking at you.
And that takes me into
the peripheral vision,
and actually takes me
into the state of alpha.
The Hawaiians call that
Hakalau, the learning state.
So if you know any kids,
or you're actually in class
learning anything, this
is a great place to be.
Just actually looking
forward and being
aware of the whole room
allows you to access directly
to the unconscious
mind and allows
you to feel good and get
that information stored.
So next stage, what
we're going to do
is teach you how to anchor.
And this is an
NLP technique that
anchors the memory and the
instruction into your body.
So you're going to
take your left hand.
And place it in a loose
fist on your knee,
or wherever you want to.
And take you right finger tip.
And place the tip
of the fingertip
on the knuckle,
the first knuckle.
This meridian actually
leads all the way
to your stomach
and those emotions.
So you actually have
a direct contact
with emotions when
you actually do this.
So that's anchoring.
You're going to place
this finger on the knuckle
whenever you're
speaking, whenever you're
giving the unconscious
mind the instruction.
So first of all,
release the hands.
We're going to work with anger.
So first of all, I'd
like you to think
of a time when you were angry,
a time when you were frustrated.
And to do that, you
put your head down.
And that's the easiest
way to access it.
Find where it is in your body.
Sometimes you don't
even need the memory.
You can just find the
space in your body.
And I've got something
happening around here.
Good.
Now I know where it is.
I can know that when I've
released it, it's gone.
So I'm going to look up.
I'm going to choose a
spot on the ceiling.
Become aware of what's on
the right and the left.
Put my finger on the knuckle.
And take a deep breath.
And as I release the
breath, I'm going to say,
I'm letting go of the root cause
of the anger and frustration
preserving the positive lessons
for my health and benefit.
That's it.
It already feels better.
When I look down and access it,
it's just kind of waving at me.
We're going to do
that three times.
The third time, it will be gone.
This is like deleting a
file on your computer.
You know the name of it.
You access it.
And it says, are you sure
you want to delete that file?
And you say, yes, thank you.
And then it goes into
recycle, and out.
So three times
with each emotion.
Second time for anger, ready?
Go ahead.
Look down.
It may not be there
very much right now.
And look up.
Choose a spot on the ceiling.
Finger on the knuckle.
Take a deep breath.
Release the root cause of
the anger and frustration.
Preserve the positive lessons
for my health and benefit.
I look down.
It's barely there
at all, if at all.
And then last time-- it's
in the recycle box now.
I look up.
Choose a spot on the ceiling.
Finger on the
knuckle, become aware
of the right and the left.
Take a deep breath.
Release the negative emotion
of anger and frustration.
Preserve the positive lessons
for my health and benefit.
And it's gone.
It actually is completely gone.
Isn't it magic?
>>LISA: That was fabulous.
So this is great,
when we can actually
turn this into a workshop.
I love this.
>>OSWALD: I know.
I'm all into practicality.
>>LISA: This is an
interactive show.
So one of the biggest things
that you hear about is what?
Procrastination?
What is?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
>>LISA: Is that a biggie?
>>OSWALD: Procrastination
is-- again,
it's that idea that of
least good case scenario.
So for instance, when someone
has stage fright, for instance.
And then they're-- they get into
the point where they actually
stop the video is just
before they go on the stage.
So they're like, what if?
What if?
>>LISA: Right.
>>OSWALD: And, of
course, then they're
going to get on the stage.
They're going to show
themselves as insecure.
And, of course, they're going
to get exactly the result
that they were thinking of.
So what we do is we simply take
the person to the end of it
when they're standing
on the stage saying,
thank you, thank you, thank you.
And everybody's going, woo!
You changed my life!
Amazing!
Coming up and shaking hands.
Feel good.
Turn the colors up, the
sounds, the feelings.
Lock it into the body.
And there's no stage fright.
It's done.
>>LISA: So you walk onto the
stage with that visualization?
>>OSWALD: You actually
stand there on the stage
after the successful
completion of your talk.
>>LISA: But then when
you go on to speak,
you can bring that
feeling forward?
>>OSWALD: That's all the
feeling have in your head
because you already
have the happy ending.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>OSWALD: There's no
possibility of having
the anxiety or the
procrastination.
Same if you've got like--
you need to do your taxes,
or you need to paint a
room, or clear it up.
If you visualize yourself
with the time-- of course,
it has to be like a day or two
or a timeline-- on that date,
walking in and seeing the
room tidy, seeing the room,
ah amazing.
Feels great.
Feels wonderful.
Lock it in.
Take a deep.
And it's done.
>>LISA: And you can do
this for any situation?
>>OSWALD: Anything,
Any situation at all.
Any situation where
you've built up anything,
you can go to afterwards,
even an interview, an exam.
Imagine yourself.
Spend two minutes imagining--
>>LISA: Exam, right.
>>OSWALD: Getting the exam.
Walking out.
Seeing that result.
Getting the dates on it.
Going yes, oh my God!
I did it!
I passed it!
Yes, lock it in.
And then go into the exam.
And it's fine.
>>LISA: What happens
if that doesn't work?
If you have done
the visualization,
and you've done everything
that you know to do,
and the result doesn't come up
the way that you visualized it?
>>OSWALD: Then you
need to retake the exam
and learn a bit better, or
get somebody to help you.
Because quite often,
it's the teachers
who didn't teach it well
enough in your system.
So for instance, people
who aren't visual,
they'll have their ear
to the teacher listening
because they're listening 100%.
And then the teacher will say
they're not paying attention.
Well, they are paying attention.
If they were looking
at it, they wouldn't
be able to pay attention.
Because they're attempting
to use two systems.
So it's the teachers who need
the education behind what
systems the kid's using.
>>LISA: But I've set a
goal before, and done
the visualization
around it before.
And it didn't work out.
>>OSWALD: OK.
>>LISA: So is that
because I need
to go back to the drawing
board on my processes?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: I see.
>>OSWALD: And sometimes
it's because your GPS
is set for the
wrong-- not the right
thing, the incorrect thing.
>>LISA: Right.
Well then, how much does
free will play into?
>>OSWALD: Free will
plays a huge part.
You can change your whole future
simply by changing your mind,
changing what you believe and
what you want out of life?
>>LISA: But what if it
involves other people?
>>OSWALD: There you--
that's interesting.
Because it really needs
to be about yourself
and how much you can
control of your life.
The most important thing is
to give your unconscious mind
really strong instructions.
And to model someone
else who's done it well.
If they've done it,
you can do it, too.
Someone's done it.
Look at Roger Bannister
with the four minute mile.
Nobody had done the four
minute mile before he did.
>>LISA: Right.
>>OSWALD: Within 12
months, lots of people
had done the four minute mile.
>>LISA: Because he was a model.
>>OSWALD: Someone simply has
to believe it can be done.
And then everybody
else can follow.
>>LISA: So he changed
everybody's model
of the four minute mile?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
He changed the
whole dynamic of it.
>>LISA: What is it
that you hear the most?
Wen people come to you, what do
they come to you the most for?
>>OSWALD: Mostly because
they're not happy.
Mostly because they've got
negative emotions in the way.
They feel trapped.
They feel depressed.
I do enjoy dealing with the
really, really-- the big ones.
Those are my favorite.
Because those are actually a lot
easier to clear than the ones
who have got little
bitty things.
>>LISA: You see
the biggest impact
with those that are
severely either depressed
or in a state of trauma?
>>OSWALD: Yeah, you can totally
take them out and get them
on track immediately.
>>LISA: How many
times does it take?
>>OSWALD: Once or twice.
It doesn't take me--
like once, a big clear.
Or I think of it
as a garage sale
for the-- a yard
sale for the mind.
>>LISA: OK.
>>OSWALD: And then after a
yard sale, you always go in.
And you go, oh, look
at that cupboard
I didn't remember about.
And that's all it is.
You come back for a
tuneup visit and clear up
what your unconscious mind says,
hey, I found another cupboard.
>>LISA: Have another yard sale.
>>OSWALD: Yes, exactly.
And what I always say,
what we've cleared today,
we've cleared forever.
And it's true.
It really does.
>>LISA: That's
interesting, yeah.
>>OSWALD: I seem to have
got this real handle
on clearing things,
which is fabulous.
>>LISA: Or at the end of a
yard sale, the stuff that
hasn't been purchased,
you give away.
>>OSWALD: Straight
to Goodwill, exactly.
You don't go search it
out and bring it back in.
What's the point?
>>LISA: That's a good analogy.
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
>>LISA: Yes, that's
a great analogy.
All right, well, overwhelmed
is also something
that many people
find themselves.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: Especially In our very
fast-paced world where we just
topple things on
top of theirselves.
>>OSWALD: And parents
have a huge hand in that.
Oh, you only got a B?
Why can't you get a B plus?
You got a B plus?
You know, it's so near to an A.
And an A is so
near to an A star.
Why didn't you get
A star this time?
You only got an A?
And we do that not
enough syndrome
so that the children don't
ever feel like they're proud
and they can just enjoy it.
So we set ourselves goals
that are much too high.
And then immediately,
they don't work.
So for instance, I have a lady
who had to release 100 pounds.
And I said to her,
so, I said, what
do you-- I want to release
100 pounds, she said.
And I'm like, OK.
And I said, and how long
do you want to do it in?
I want to do it in a week.
>>LISA: In a week?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
That's instant.
I can do it fast.
Maybe not quite that fast.
And I said, well, how about
can you release one pound?
Well, yeah, that's simple.
And then she said, well,
what if I release two pounds?
Then you're a pound in bonus.
With exercise, she said,
I can do an hour a day.
And I said, you don't
want to do an hour a day.
I said, what would
you like to do?
I'd like to do the gym.
I said, do you like the gym?
She said, no.
The body language is disagreeing
with the mouth every time.
So I said, well, could
you do half an hour?
Yeah, yeah.
Could you do 15 minutes?
Hmm.
Could you do five minutes?
Oh, yes.
Put the leash on the dog.
Walk down the road.
Come back.
Yes, I can do five minutes.
I said, well, that's it.
You're only allowed to do five
minutes a day from now on.
And she was like, but what if
I do 10 minutes or 15 minutes?
>>LISA: Everything
over that is a bonus.
>>OSWALD: And she's like, bonus.
That's the whole thing.
It's like when you go in
looking for healthy foods
into the supermarket.
Go look for colors.
Choose five different
colors of fruits,
five different
colors of vegetables.
It's much more fun for the kids.
>>LISA: True.
>>OSWALD: And you're not
saying, go for healthy foods.
>>LISA: Right.
OK, so this is
especially important
where it comes to
parenting, and when
you have employees,
or employers.
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: How much does a
child hear that word "no"
when they're young?
I mean it's--
>>OSWALD: It's
150,000 times plus.
>>LISA: Is it just because
the parent's trying to teach?
>>OSWALD: They're attempting
to say, no, don't.
No, don't.
No, stop.
And the challenge
is this constant no.
They did a study in the
US where they actually
tape recorded in a daycare
nursery how many times
the caretaker said no.
And it was literally
90% of the time
when the child was doing this.
No, stop.
Instead of saying, if you
do this, my sweetheart,
this is going to be the result.
With my child, I
really, literally,
didn't say no for the first
three years of her life.
>>LISA: Wow
>>OSWALD: It was an
interesting exercise.
>>LISA: How did you
create boundaries?
>>OSWALD: I used to say, if
you do this, my sweetheart,
this is the result.
Think of a different way.
That's all.
I would just teach her,
rather than tell her.
>>LISA: That's a great phrase.
If you do this, this
will be the result.
Think of a different way.
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
And if she'd done
something, I'd go, OK.
That's fine.
Thank you for being honest.
Let's think of how we
can not do that next.
>>LISA: So you studied
NLP, obviously.
And then also
hypnotherapy for how long?
>>OSWALD: Gosh, the hypnosis
probably about 15 years,
the NLP probably about 10.
Only it took me six years to
do my PhD in clinical hypnosis.
>>LISA: Because you?
>>OSWALD: Just
because I was working.
And I had the child.
And I had--
>>LISA: Yeah, let's talk about
that for a second, though.
Because many, many people
want to go back and finish
their education and
don't have the time.
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
>>LISA: So how did
you create that?
>>OSWALD: I was just
so keen to do it.
I knew I was doing
learning anyway.
So I thought, why don't I get
some qualifications for it?
I'm always going to
be taking learning.
I'm always going to be
taking courses and learning
more things.
I'm like a sponge.
I really enjoy
listening and thinking.
So I decided, you know what?
I want to be the
best that I can be.
>>LISA: And so you went and
you sought after your PhD?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
>>LISA: And at what
time-- I mean, it
was after you had children?
Later in life?
>>OSWALD: I had Katie.
She was about eight
when I started.
So it was once a month I'd
have to have this paper in.
And at midnight on the
last day of the month
I'd be sitting there like this.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>OSWALD: Because no matter
how much time during the month,
you're always going to do
it that last two hours.
>>LISA: You didn't work on
yourself with procrastination?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
Yeah.
You know, it gives
you inspiration.
When you have a
timeline to work with,
it gives you inspiration
to just do it then.
>>LISA: True.
Did we say anything
about procrastination
and how to reverse it?
>>OSWALD: Yes.
>>LISA: How do we do this?
>>OSWALD: Literally,
what I could
have done-- because I didn't
know NLP then fully enough.
I hadn't really studied
it a great deal.
Is what I could have
done is seen myself
on the 28th of every
month doing the send.
And then it probably
would've been the 29th.
However, it would have
still gone earlier.
>>LISA: All night on the 29th.
But you still-- so you
could back up your date.
>>OSWALD: You can back up
the date, yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: OK.
What about lateness?
Can you rewind that?
>>OSWALD: Lateness is
usually a control thing.
It's like I want to
control my universe.
Therefore, the only
way I can control it
is by making sure that
everybody is waiting for me.
It's kind of interesting.
>>LISA: To make
the grand entrance?
>>OSWALD: Yes, exactly.
Oh, I apologize I'm late.
And I used to do it a lot
until I realized I did it.
And then I was like, wow.
That's really not a good
way to get attention.
Remember that as a
child, the one thing
we have to have is
attention or we die.
It's that simple.
So we're programmed
internally, deep wired,
to get that attention,
to get that recognition.
Or else we may not get through.
>>LISA: Back to
the limbic system,
back to the survival brain.
>>OSWALD: Back to Maslow's
hierarchy of needs,
where we have to get
our physical needs met,
our emotional needs met, our
recognition and attention needs
met.
And once we've got
all those, then we
can work with the higher values.
>>LISA: So do you do
anything in terms of hypnosis
to address the survivalist
qualities of our life?
>>OSWALD: Always.
>>LISA: Is that where you start?
>>OSWALD: I start
with the three pages.
And then I say,
literally, I believe
everything's done the first
seven years, even phobias.
>>LISA: You have to
rewind all of that.
>>OSWALD: No, you just simply
go back to the little child
and give them the
gifts back that they
never-- if you actually
align them back
with the perfect blueprint
of perfect health, and joy,
and freedom from before
they were conceived
and just white light
the whole thing,
it completely clears everything.
>>LISA: What about
fears of-- phobias?
You mentioned fear of
drowning, or spiders,
or things like that.
>>OSWALD: Phobias are the
easiest thing in the world.
It takes two minutes.
I did it on a radio show
a couple of years ago.
And literally everyone was
like this with their phobias.
It's fabulous.
>>LISA: In terms of the
technique that you did with me?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
>>LISA: So are you
overlaying something
positive over a
negative experience?
>>OSWALD: Nope, you're
just releasing the emotion.
Just before you have that
phobia come up, you were fine.
So I had a lady who
was afraid of snakes.
She couldn't even
say the word snakes.
She was like, those things
in the garden that wriggle.
And she said, I can't
go in the garden.
I live in Florida.
She said, this is not funny.
And I said to her,
when do you remember
being afraid of snakes?
She said, I have no idea.
I don't know.
I said, do you think you were
afraid when you were born?
She said, no.
So I said, let's go back
to when you were born then.
Watch the film of you watching
yourself from the projector.
Watching the film from
when you were born to now.
White light it.
Black white it.
And when the film
became neutral,
she just said,
that's ridiculous.
She said, I don't know why
I was afraid of snakes.
She said, I can go on.
>>LISA: How did you
make the film neutral?
>>OSWALD: You literally-- it's
called a double dissociation
method.
It's pure NLP.
You literally see yourself
watching yourself watching
the film, great for post
traumatic stress as well.
And from this
perspective, you can't
be connected with that emotion.
So you're literally in--
using your prefrontal cortex.
And you literally watch
it forward in color,
back in color, forward
in black and white.
And you black and
white the whole thing.
You whitewash it.
And before you
know it, the brain
can't comprehend anything
to do with that emotion.
And just deletes the file.
>>LISA: So that's interesting.
>>OSWALD: It's really easy.
You don't have to do behavioral
therapy and expose them to it.
You just delete it.
>>LISA: It sounds too easy.
But I had that.
When I was young, I used
to walk out my front door
on the way to school half asleep
and run into gigantic spiders
with very, very strong webs.
And I remember this situation.
My brother and I both, to this
day, cannot stand spiders.
So I could go back, look at us
before we walk out half asleep,
and rewind the situation.
But don't get to the spider?
Do it right before that?
>>OSWALD: You just
watch yourself
going through the
spider web and back.
And watch it backwards.
It's really simple.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>OSWALD: You don't
have to-- and the thing
is, nobody particularly
likes spiders.
Having a huge fear of
them is a phobia though.
So you want to clear it.
It's an inappropriate response.
>>LISA: Well, I mean, I
recognize during-- you know,
whenever you see a scary
thing, they put spiders on it.
So it's a very common fear.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, they do.
It is.
>>LISA: So it
scares most people.
It's not just--
>>OSWALD: Exactly.
And going to see scary movies
is really healthy for you.
Because it allows you to
clear fear from your body
that would otherwise
have been stuck there.
>>LISA: Interesting.
I've never looked at scary
movies as a healthy thing
to do.
>>OSWALD: Yes, it is actually,
if you've got the fears.
It's not if you've
not got the fears.
Because then it's just
going to light fears.
>>LISA: Right.
>>OSWALD: Like I
love roller coasters.
And it's simply the
excitement of the roller
coasters boosts
my immune system.
So put me on a roller
coaster, I love it.
>>LISA: You do?
>>OSWALD: I wouldn't enjoy a
scary movie these days, though.
That would make
me think of things
I wouldn't want to think of.
When I was a teenager,
I used to love it.
Because I had a lot
of fear as a teenager.
>>LISA: Now you've
gotten over that?
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
I have no need to
go to a scary movie.
Why would I do that to myself?
>>LISA: Not that you're
avoiding it or anything.
>>OSWALD: No.
No.
Actually, it's like, I have
a really good imagination.
I don't need that, thank you.
>>LISA: OK, very good.
Well, thank you so much.
The book is called
"Every Word Has Power."
>>OSWALD: "Every
Word Has Power."
It's in 10 languages now.
>>LISA: 10 languages?
Wow.
>>OSWALD: Yeah.
>>LISA: And a lot of
exercises in the book,
as we have seen, on the videos.
>>OSWALD: Yes, a lot.
>>LISA: A lot of great
videos on YouTube
as well to do
exercises with you.
>>OSWALD: Yeah, wonderful.
Well, thank you so much, Lisa.
It was great.
Thoroughly enjoyed it.
>>LISA: Thank you.
Well done.
>>OSWALD: Good.
>>LISA: As you would say.
>>OSWALD: Do I say that a lot?
I probably do.
>>LISA: Well done.
No, I put it in the positive.
>>OSWALD: Thank you.
That's good.
Your language has
improved actually.
>>LISA: Thank you.
Well, if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Dr. Yvonne, you
can go to gaiamtv.com.
And you can even share it
with your friends from there.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]